# Scholarly Search Results

**Query:** on-treatment analysis semaglutide MACE

**Saved:** 2025-10-24T07:40:02.985158+00:00

---

A Google search for 'on-treatment analysis semaglutide MACE' found 10 results:

## Web Results
1. [Glycemic Control, Weight Management, Cardiovascular Safety, and Cost-Effectiveness of Semaglutide for Patients with Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus: A Rapid Review and Meta-analysis of Real-World Studies](https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/937f57e3de8010520d88d1e8e522ad767a3ef3d8)
Date published: 2024
Source: Semantic Scholar

Introduction Semaglutide is a high-profile glucose-lowering drug that medical decision-makers have acknowledged in recent years. This rapid review aims to provide evidence-based clinical recommendations for the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) with semaglutide. Methods We conducted a rapid review of randomized controlled trial (RCT)-based meta-analyses (MAs) and systematic reviews (SRs) of cost-effectiveness analyses (CEAs) compared to other glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists (GLP-1 RAs) or placebo in patients with T2DM. Prospective cohort real-world studies (RWS) were also retrieved and subjected to MA. Four databases, including PubMed, the Cochrane Library, Embase, and ISPOR, were searched from inception to 5 March 2023. The outcomes of interest were hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c), body weight, major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE), and economic outcomes such as quality-adjusted life-years and total cost. Results We identified 33 publications: 22 RCT-based MAs, 1 SR of CEAs, and 10 RWS. Evidence showed that semaglutide at usual doses was associated with superior reductions in HbA1c and weight compared to most GLP-1 RAs in patients with T2DM who were drug naive, receiving basal insulin, or using oral hypoglycemic agents, and it was also associated with a lower number of MACE and was more cost-effective. Further, once-weekly semaglutide resulted in a significant reduction in HbA1c levels (−1.1%) and body weight (−4.88 kg) in routine clinical practice. Conclusions This review consolidates the positive current evidence base for prescribing semaglutide to patients with T2DM, but further rigorous studies are still urgently required to develop practice guidelines as innovative drugs become commercially available.

2. [Effect of semaglutide on major adverse cardiovascular events by baseline kidney parameters in participants with type 2 diabetes and at high risk of cardiovascular disease: SUSTAIN 6 and PIONEER 6 post hoc pooled analysis](https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/6785d21832ffc78937e7f9e12dabea0b3fdba092)
Date published: 2023
Source: Semantic Scholar

Background Semaglutide is a glucose-lowering treatment for type 2 diabetes (T2D) with demonstrated cardiovascular benefits; semaglutide may also have kidney-protective effects. This post hoc analysis investigated the association between major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) and baseline kidney parameters and whether the effect of semaglutide on MACE risk was impacted by baseline kidney parameters in people with T2D at high cardiovascular risk. Methods Participants from the SUSTAIN 6 and PIONEER 6 trials, receiving semaglutide or placebo, were categorised according to baseline kidney function (estimated glomerular filtration rate [eGFR] < 45 and ≥ 45–<60 versus ≥ 60 mL/min/1.73 m^2) or damage (urine albumin:creatinine ratio [UACR] ≥ 30–≤300 and > 300 versus < 30 mg/g). Relative risk of first MACE by baseline kidney parameters was evaluated using a Cox proportional hazards model. The same model, adjusted with inverse probability weighting, and a quadratic spline regression were applied to evaluate the effect of semaglutide on risk and event rate of first MACE across subgroups. The semaglutide effects on glycated haemoglobin (HbA_1c), body weight (BW) and serious adverse events (SAEs) across subgroups were also evaluated. Results Independently of treatment, participants with reduced kidney function (eGFR ≥ 45–<60 and < 45 mL/min/1.73 m^2: hazard ratio [95% confidence interval]; 1.36 [1.04;1.76] and 1.52 [1.15;1.99]) and increased albuminuria (UACR ≥ 30–≤300 and > 300 mg/g: 1.53 [1.14;2.04] and 2.52 [1.84;3.42]) had an increased MACE risk versus those without. Semaglutide consistently reduced MACE risk versus placebo across all eGFR and UACR subgroups (interaction p value [p_INT] > 0.05). Semaglutide reduced HbA_1c regardless of baseline eGFR and UACR (p_INT>0.05); reductions in BW were affected by baseline eGFR (p_INT<0.001) but not UACR (p_INT>0.05). More participants in the lower eGFR or higher UACR subgroups experienced SAEs versus participants in reference groups; the number of SAEs was similar between semaglutide and placebo arms in each subgroup. Conclusions MACE risk was greater for participants with kidney impairment or damage than for those without. Semaglutide consistently reduced MACE risk across eGFR and UACR subgroups, indicating that semaglutide provides cardiovascular benefits in people with T2D and at high cardiovascular risk across a broad spectrum of kidney function and damage. Trial registrations NCT01720446; NCT02692716.

3. [P6271The effect of semaglutide once weekly on MACE and blood pressure by race and ethnicity: SUSTAIN 6 post hoc analysis](https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/b85e2327d558386149c87e98df82ca0e47304342)
Date published: 2019
Source: Semantic Scholar

In SUSTAIN 6, subcutaneous semaglutide once weekly added to standard of care significantly reduced major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE: non-fatal myocardial infarction, non-fatal stroke or death) vs placebo over 2 years in T2D subjects.
 
 
 
 Assess the effect of semaglutide vs placebo on MACE and blood pressure (BP) by race and ethnicity in a post hoc analysis of SUSTAIN 6.
 
 
 
 Subjects were randomised to semaglutide 0.5 mg, 1.0 mg or volume-matched placebo. Data for the two semaglutide-dose groups were pooled and compared to the pooled placebo groups. Time-to-event data were analysed with a Cox proportional hazards model. Changes from baseline to week 104 were analysed using analysis of covariance. The interaction between treatment and subgroup was added to the models.
 
 
 
 Overall, 3,297 patients received treatment. Subgroups included Caucasian, Asian, Black/African American, Other (race), and Hispanic, non-Hispanic (ethnicity). Mean baseline characteristics were similar across subgroups (age 64.7 years, HbA1c 8.7%, diabetes duration 14.2 years). Time to composite MACE and individual components were improved with semaglutide across all subgroups. Semaglutide affected BP similarly across race and ethnicity, except for systolic BP in Black/African American subjects (Table).
 Race Ethnicity Caucasian Asian Black/African American Other Interaction p-value Hispanic Non-Hispanic Interaction p-value Semaglutide (n) 1,384 121 108 35 256 1,392 Placebo (n) 1,352 152 113 32 254 1,395 MACE and individual outcomes   MACE HR [95% CI] 0.76 [0.58; 1.00] 0.58 [0.25; 1.34] 0.72 [0.23; 2.28] 0.46 [0.08; 2.50] 0.8793 0.67 [0.33; 1.36] 0.74 [0.57; 0.96] 0.7978   CV death HR [95% CI] 0.98 [0.63; 1.50] 0.32 [0.04; 2.85] 1.01 [0.06; 16.20] n/a† 0.8089 0.79 [0.31; 2.00] 1.00 [0.63; 1.59] 0.6521   Non-fatal MI HR [95% CI] 0.69 [0.45; 1.07] 0.97 [0.36; 2.60] 1.37 [0.31; 6.12] 0.31 [0.03; 3.00] 0.6637 0.65 [0.18; 2.31] 0.74 [0.50; 1.10] 0.8562   Non-fatal stroke HR [95% CI] 0.70 [0.42; 1.16] 0.31 [0.04; 2.77] n/a‡ n/a‡ 0.9176 0.73 [0.16; 3.27] 0.60 [0.36; 0.99] 0.7995 Blood pressure at week 104   Systolic BP* ETD (mmHg) [95% CI] −1.92 [−3.09; −0.74] −4.98 [−8.61; 1.35] 4.47 [0.15; 8.79] −11.02 [−18.45; −3.60] 0.0008 −3.22 [−5.93; −0.51] −1.81 [−2.98; −0.64] 0.3489   Diastolic BP* ETD (mmHg) [95% CI] 0.36 [−0.32; 1.04] −1.31 [−3.43; 0.80] −0.07 [−2.56; 2.43] −3.41 [−7.73; 0.92] 0.1871 −0.18 [−1.75; 1.39] 0.16 [−0.52; 0.83] 0.6981 *Treatment difference between semaglutide and placebo (pooled 0.5 and 1.0 mg values for each treatment group) at week 104. †No events in the placebo group; ‡No events in the semaglutide group. BP, blood pressure; CI, confidence interval; ETD, estimated treatment difference; HR, hazard ratio; MACE, major adverse cardiovascular event; MI, myocardial infarction.
 
 
 
 Overall there was no evidence of a differential effect of semaglutide on risk reduction in MACE and its components and on BP across race and ethnicity subgroups in this post hoc analysis.
 
 
 
 Novo Nordisk A/S

4. [Effects of semaglutide on risk of cardiovascular events across a continuum of cardiovascular risk: combined post hoc analysis of the SUSTAIN and PIONEER trials](https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/153f40c182197fee4231718a914436ef879861d7)
Date published: 2020
Source: Semantic Scholar

Background Semaglutide is a glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) analog treatment for type 2 diabetes (T2D) available in subcutaneous (s.c.) and oral formulations. Two cardiovascular (CV) outcomes trials showed that in subjects with T2D at high risk of CV events there were fewer major adverse CV events (MACE; defined as CV death, non-fatal stroke, non-fatal myocardial infarction) with semaglutide than with placebo (hazard ratio [95% CI]: 0.74 [0.58;0.95] for once-weekly s.c. semaglutide and 0.79 [0.57;1.11] for once-daily oral semaglutide). However, there is little evidence for an effect of semaglutide on MACE in subjects not at high risk of CV events. This post hoc analysis examined CV effects of semaglutide in subjects across a continuum of baseline CV risk. Methods Data from the s.c. (SUSTAIN) and oral (PIONEER) semaglutide phase 3a clinical trial programs were combined according to randomized treatment (semaglutide or comparators) and analyzed to assess time to first MACE and its individual components. A CV risk model was developed with independent data from the LEADER trial (liraglutide vs placebo), considering baseline variables common to all datasets. Semaglutide data were analyzed to assess effects of treatment as a function of CV risk predicted using the CV risk prediction model. Results The CV risk prediction model performed satisfactorily when applied to the semaglutide data set (area under the curve: 0.77). There was a reduced relative and absolute risk of MACE for semaglutide vs comparators across the entire continuum of CV risk. While the relative risk reduction tended to be largest with low CV risk score, the largest absolute risk reduction was for intermediate to high CV risk score. Similar results were seen for relative risk reduction of the individual MACE components and also when only placebo comparator data were included. Conclusion Semaglutide reduced the risk of MACE vs comparators across the continuum of baseline CV risk in a broad T2D population. Trial registrations ClinicalTrials.gov identifiers: NCT02054897, NCT01930188, NCT01885208, NCT02128932, NCT02305381, NCT01720446, NCT02207374, NCT02254291, NCT02906930, NCT02863328, NCT02607865, NCT02863419, NCT02827708, NCT02692716, NCT02849080, NCT03021187, NCT03018028, NCT03015220.

5. [The effect of glucagon‐like peptide‐1 receptor agonists liraglutide and semaglutide on cardiovascular and renal outcomes across baseline blood pressure categories: Analysis of the LEADER and SUSTAIN 6 trials](https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/a15a162fc74abd3f8d8ed2383b78ce8e9bbb7b97)
Date published: 2020
Source: Semantic Scholar

Abstract It is unknown if the cardioprotective and renal effects of glucagon‐like peptide‐1 receptor agonists are consistent across blood pressure (BP) categories in patients with type 2 diabetes and at high risk of cardiovascular events. Using data from the LEADER (9340 patients) and SUSTAIN 6 (3297 patients) trials, we evaluated post hoc the cardiorenal effect of liraglutide and semaglutide on major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) and nephropathy by baseline BP categories using a Cox proportional hazards model (treatment and subgroup as factors; adjusted for cardiorenal risk factors). Data from the two trials were analysed separately. In the LEADER and SUSTAIN 6 trials, the prevalence of stage 1 hypertension was 30% and 31%, respectively, and of stage 2 hypertension 41% and 43%, respectively. There was no statistical heterogeneity across the BP categories for the effects of liraglutide (P = .06 for MACE; P = .14 for nephropathy) or semaglutide (P = .40 for MACE; P = .27 for nephropathy) versus placebo. This implies that liraglutide and semaglutide may be beneficial for patients with type 2 diabetes, irrespective of their baseline BP.

6. [Risk of major adverse cardiovascular events and all-cause mortality under treatment with GLP-1 RAs or the dual GIP/GLP-1 receptor agonist tirzepatide in overweight or obese adults without diabetes: a systematic review and meta-analysis](https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/e34521179cab419f73f8d0e74233eb6f846752b6)
Date published: 2024
Source: Semantic Scholar

Background: Among the currently approved antiobesity medications, the glucagon-like-peptide-1 receptor-agonists (GLP-1 RAs) liraglutide and semaglutide, and the dual glucose-dependent-insulinotropic-polypeptide (GIP)/GLP-1 RA tirzepatide have been suggested to reduce cardiovascular-risk in overweight or obesity without diabetes. Objectives: The objective of this study was to evaluate the cardio- and neuroprotective potential of these novel agents in the nondiabetic overweight/obese adult population. Data sources and methods: A systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized-controlled clinical trials (RCTs) was performed to estimate the risk of major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE), all-cause and cardiovascular mortality in overweight or obese adults without diabetes treated with GLP-1 or GIP/GLP-1 RAs (vs placebo). Secondary outcomes included the risk of myocardial infarction (MI) and stroke. Results: Sixteen RCTs (13 and 3 on GLP-1 RAs and tirzepatide, respectively) comprising 28,168 participants were included. GLP-1 or GIP/GLP-1 RAs reduced MACE (odds ratio (OR): 0.79; 95% confidence interval (CI): 0.71–0.89; p < 0.01; I2 = 0) and all-cause mortality (OR: 0.80; 95% CI: 0.70–0.92; p < 0.01; I2 = 0), while there was a trend toward lower cardiovascular-mortality (OR: 0.84; 95% CI: 0.71–1.01; p = 0.06; I2 = 0%) compared to placebo. Additionally, GLP-1 or GIP/GLP-1 RAs reduced the odds of MI (OR: 0.72; 95% CI: 0.61–0.86; p < 0.01; I2 = 0%) and nonfatal-MI (OR: 0.72; 95% CI: 0.61–0.85; p < 0.01; I2 = 0%); while no associations between antiobesity treatment and fatal-MI, stroke, nonfatal, or fatal stroke were uncovered. Conclusion: GLP-1 and GIP/GLP-1 RAs reduce cardiovascular-risk and all-cause mortality in overweight or obese adults without diabetes. Additionally, GLP-1 RAs and GIP/GLP-1 RAs attenuate the risk of MI. Since data on stroke are still limited, future RCTs are warranted to evaluate the neuroprotective potential of these novel antiobesity agents. Trial registration: PROSPERO CRD42024515966.

7. [The Composite Number Needed to Treat for Semaglutide in Populations with Overweight or Obesity and Established Cardiovascular Disease Without Diabetes](https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/19a16b4a9e69322c9401fe3f690e0417e95f8d90)
Date published: 2025
Source: Semantic Scholar

Introduction Number needed to treat (NNT), an outcome measure derived from the estimated risk results of clinical trials, is widely used to demonstrate value to stakeholders by identifying how many patients require treatment to avoid one event of interest. However, NNTs calculated for primary trial endpoints may underestimate a treatment’s value by not considering other outcomes. In this secondary analysis of data from the SELECT cardiovascular (CV) outcomes trial, we aimed to determine the NNT for semaglutide for major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE), in addition to NNTs when other clinically and payer-relevant outcomes are included. Methods This study is a secondary analysis of data from the randomized, double-blind SELECT trial (ClinicalTrials.gov NCT03574597) of once-weekly subcutaneous administration of semaglutide compared with placebo in 17,604 patients with overweight or obesity and with established cardiovascular disease (CVD) (39.8 months mean follow-up). The outcomes were NNT3P-MACE (based upon the trial’s composite primary endpoint of death from cardiovascular causes, non-fatal myocardial infarction, non-fatal stroke), NNTEXTENDED (inclusive of NNT3P-MACE, hospitalization for any cause, coronary revascularization, and non-CV death), and NNTCKM (inclusive of NNTEXTENDED, glycated hemoglobin level [HbA1c] ≥ 6.5%, and a 5-point nephropathy composite). Results The relative risk reductions observed for the events comprising the NNTs were 20% (NNT3P-MACE), 20% (NNTEXTENDED), and 41% (NNTCKM). At 1 and 4 years post initiation of semaglutide, NNT3P-MACE was 125 and 58, NNTEXTENDED was 49 and 25, and NNTCKM was 20 and 11, respectively. Conclusion When clinically and payer-relevant outcomes from the SELECT trial are included in calculations of NNT, semaglutide was associated with greater risk reductions and lower estimates of NNT than for the primary endpoint alone. Our findings suggest that including the broader effects of semaglutide beyond the primary trial endpoint recognizes additional value to stakeholders.

8. [Estimated Life-Years Gained Free of New or Recurrent Major Cardiovascular Events With the Addition of Semaglutide to Standard of Care in People With Type 2 Diabetes and High Cardiovascular Risk.](https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/8b3b1f8e899beb6a9fa44a46b029810c6a068de1)
Date published: 2022
Source: Semantic Scholar

OBJECTIVE
Semaglutide, a glucagon-like peptide 1 receptor agonist, reduced major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) in people with type 2 diabetes (T2D) at high risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD) in a post hoc analysis of pooled data from Trial to Evaluate Cardiovascular and Other Long-term Outcomes with Semaglutide in Subjects With Type 2 Diabetes (SUSTAIN) 6 and Peptide Innovation for Early Diabetes Treatment (PIONEER) 6. We estimated the benefit of adding semaglutide to standard of care (SoC) on life-years free of new/recurrent CVD events in people with T2D at high risk of CVD.


RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS
The Diabetes Lifetime-perspective prediction (DIAL) competing risk-adjusted lifetime CVD risk model for people with T2D was developed previously. Baseline characteristics of the pooled cohort from SUSTAIN 6 and PIONEER 6 (POOLED cohort) (N = 6,480) were used to estimate individual life expectancy free of CVD for patients in the POOLED cohort. The hazard ratio of MACE from adding semaglutide to SoC was derived from the POOLED cohort (hazard ratio [HR] 0.76 [95% CI 0.62-0.92]) and combined with an individual's risk to estimate their CVD benefit.


RESULTS
Adding semaglutide to SoC was associated with a wide distribution in life-years free of CVD gained, with a mean increase of 1.7 (95% CI 0.5-2.9) life-years. Estimated life-years free of CVD gained with semaglutide was dependent on baseline risk (life-years free of CVD gained in individuals with established CVD vs. those with cardiovascular risk factors only: 2.0 vs. 0.2) and age at treatment initiation.


CONCLUSIONS
Adding semaglutide to SoC was associated with a gain in life-years free of CVD events that was dependent on baseline CVD risk and age at treatment initiation. This study helps contextualize the results of semaglutide clinical trials.

9. [Semaglutide Consistently Reduces Cardiovascular Events in Both Male and Female Subjects with Type 2 Diabetes](https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/50160aaf74b7d8ec5c5df9b850caffbcfda43115)
Date published: 2018
Source: Semantic Scholar

Semaglutide is a new GLP-1 analog for the once-weekly treatment of T2D. In the SUSTAIN 6 CV outcomes trial, subcutaneous semaglutide (0.5 mg and 1.0 mg) added to standard of care significantly reduced major adverse CV events (MACE: non-fatal MI, non-fatal stroke or CV death) vs. placebo over 2 years in subjects with T2D at high CV risk. This post-hoc analysis assessed whether this CV risk reduction was consistent in male and female subjects. Overall, 2,002 male and 1,295 female subjects were randomized. MACE was reported by fewer subjects with semaglutide vs. placebo in both sexes (p=0.45 for interaction); HR estimates were 0.68 (95% CI 0.50;0.92) in males, 0.84 (95% CI 0.54;1.31) in females and 0.74 (95% CI 0.58;0.95) in the overall study population. Overall, the pattern was similar across the individual MACE components (Table 1). AEs were reported by similar proportions of males and females across treatments. The most frequent AEs reported were gastrointestinal, with higher rates in females than in males. The proportions of subjects prematurely discontinuing treatment due to AEs were comparable for males and females (Table 1). MACE and its components was reported in consistent proportions of males and females, and generally lower with semaglutide vs. placebo regardless of sex. The HR estimates for MACE with semaglutide vs. placebo for males and females were consistent with that of the overall study population. Disclosure I. Hramiak: Advisory Panel; Self; AstraZeneca. Research Support; Self; AstraZeneca. Advisory Panel; Self; Eli Lilly and Company. Research Support; Self; Eli Lilly and Company. Advisory Panel; Self; GlaxoSmithKline plc.. Research Support; Self; GlaxoSmithKline plc.. Advisory Panel; Self; Roche Pharma, Insulet Corporation, Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc.. Research Support; Self; Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc.. Speaker9s Bureau; Self; Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc.. Research Support; Self; Lexicon Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Medtronic. Advisory Panel; Self; Merck & Co., Inc.. Research Support; Self; Merck & Co., Inc.. Speaker9s Bureau; Self; Merck & Co., Inc.. Advisory Panel; Self; Novo Nordisk Inc.. Research Support; Self; Novo Nordisk Inc.. Speaker9s Bureau; Self; Novo Nordisk Inc.. Advisory Panel; Self; Sanofi. Research Support; Self; Sanofi. C. Desouza: Consultant; Self; Novo Nordisk A/S, Sanofi. Research Support; Self; Merck & Co., Inc.. Advisory Panel; Self; Medscape. J. Seufert: Speaker9s Bureau; Self; AstraZeneca, Berlin-Chemie AG, Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH. Research Support; Self; Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH. Advisory Panel; Self; Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH, GI Dynamics Inc.. Research Support; Self; GI Dynamics Inc., GlaxoSmithKline plc., Intarcia Therapeutics, Inc., Ipsen Biopharmaceuticals, Inc., Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc.. Speaker9s Bureau; Self; Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc.. Advisory Panel; Self; Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc.. Speaker9s Bureau; Self; Eli Lilly and Company, Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation. Research Support; Self; Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation. Advisory Panel; Self; Novo Nordisk A/S. Speaker9s Bureau; Self; Novo Nordisk A/S. Research Support; Self; Novo Nordisk A/S. Speaker9s Bureau; Self; Sanofi-Aventis Deutschland GmbH. Advisory Panel; Self; Sanofi-Aventis Deutschland GmbH. Research Support; Self; Sanofi-Aventis Deutschland GmbH. Advisory Panel; Self; Sanofi. Research Support; Self; Ypsomed AG. T. Hansen: None. D. Thielke: Employee; Self; Novo Nordisk A/S. I. Lingvay: Advisory Panel; Self; Novo Nordisk A/S, Eli Lilly and Company, AstraZeneca, Intarcia Therapeutics, Inc., Sanofi-Aventis. Research Support; Self; Novo Nordisk A/S, Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., Pfizer Inc., GI Dynamics Inc., Novartis AG. Other Relationship; Self; Sanofi, AstraZeneca, Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH, Novo Nordisk A/S.

10. [Abstract 13814: Semaglutide Reduces Mace Consistently Across Baseline Triglyceride Levels in Patients With Type 2 Diabetes: A Post Hoc Analysis of the Sustain 6 and Pioneer 6 Trials](https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/20a3113a27afdffb08c8cd3865ed9ba1bfd81e34)
Date published: 2020
Source: Semantic Scholar

Introduction:
 Elevated triglyceride (TG) levels may predict CV events, although this has not been evaluated in large contemporary trials. The effects of glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists on major adverse CV events (MACE) across TG levels are not fully characterized. SUSTAIN 6 (NCT01720446) and PIONEER 6 (NCT02692716) were randomized, CV outcomes trials investigating once-weekly and oral semaglutide vs placebo, respectively, in patients with type 2 diabetes at high CV risk. We performed a
 post hoc
 analysis to assess the effect of semaglutide vs placebo on the primary endpoints, MACE (CV death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, or nonfatal stroke), and its components in these two trials pooled, across baseline TG levels.
 
 
 Methods:
 The risk of first MACE with semaglutide vs placebo was evaluated across three baseline TG groups (≤151, >151-≤205, and >205 mg/dL). The effect of semaglutide vs placebo on MACE was estimated with Cox regression by TG level categorically, and continuously when adjusting for baseline TG and high-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (HDL-C) levels. The impact of statin treatment was also assessed.
 
 
 Results:
 In total, 6,417 patients had baseline TG measurements: 3,191 (49.7%) ≤151, 1,459 (22.7%) >151-≤205, and 1,767 (27.5%) >205 mg/dL; mean (±SD) TGs were 107.3 (26.0), 176.6 (15.6), and 326.5 (197.1) mg/dL, respectively. Overall, semaglutide reduced TGs vs placebo by 5% in SUSTAIN 6 and 6% in PIONEER 6 (p<0.01). The incidence of MACE with placebo increased across increasing TG levels
 (Figure)
 . Semaglutide generally reduced the risk of MACE and its components vs placebo across TG groups. Results were consistent when evaluating TGs as a continuous variable (adjusting for baseline TG and HDL-C levels), and regardless of statin treatment.
 
 
 Conclusions:
 In this post hoc analysis of SUSTAIN 6 and PIONEER 6, over half of patients had elevated TG levels (>151 mg/dL). Semaglutide consistently reduced the risk of MACE vs placebo across baseline TG levels.
